mlr 2.0 documentationbrian crabtree >> tehn@monome.orgdescription:mlr is a live sample-cutting platform. sound files are mapped across a row of the 40h interface, where playback position is indicated by a lit pad. pressing a pad within a row jumps playback to this position. jumps are quantized according to a specified grain. sample playback speed is mapped to a global tempo. multiple "groups" of sounds can play at once, enabling the user to have certain sounds cancel each other (like mute groups in a traditional sampler). each group has its own level, mute and meter. a pattern recording module allows for recording and playback of key sequences. a live input module allows clips to be captured in real time and immediately mapped to a row. there are other subtleties which are explained below.operation:must be run concurrently with monomeserial. (or 256router.mxb) set prefix to /mlrmlr should run fine in max/msp runtime.quick start:- drag and drop audio files from the finder/explorer onto the "audio file drop" box on the upper right- select an audio file from the leftmost dropdown on the top row (this chooses which sound file for the row)- push up the volume for group 1 (the leftmost slider, in the group of four on the right. the slider is above the mute)- push up the master volume (the leftmost slider on the group of two on the left) and turn on the DAC (this starts audio)- press the first key in the second row on the 40h. this starts the sample playing from the beginning- try pressing different keys in the same row. there it is.details:row and group configuration:- each row gets assigned a file- the 16 boxes indicate the playback length of the sample (on the bottom, change by clicking) and the sample playback position (orange on the top)- the "octave" is the playback speed transposition. use the + and - boxes to change the octave. increasing the octave by one will double the speed. the "speed" box will show you the playback rate *relative* to the original playback speed (according to the sample length). you can manually click and drag the "speed" to specify a different speed, which will decouple the row from the set tempo. when using the speed determined by octave, the playback speed follows the tempo.- "rev" will playback in reverse. tricky.- "group" will choose which voice to use for playback. only one sample can be played at a time per group. samples in the same group cancel one another.- group volumes, mutes, and meters are below on the right. the big grey boxes are sliders, click/drag to change. group is muted when "mute" is orange.timing and tempo:- set tempo by clicking and dragging the "tempo" box. you can also click then type in a value, follow by [enter].- "sub" is the subdivision. something like beats per bar, but perhaps convoluted. we'll consider this a bit more.- "adjust" adds/subtracts values to the tempo. useful for doing incremental tempo modulations.- "nudge" will momentarily change the tempo then bring it back. perhaps helpful for syncing to an external source.- "tap" indicates the pulse. you can also click it to establish a tempo over time.- "quantize" is a dropdown to select the quantize rate for key input on the 40h. try different values and see how the response changes on the 40h.- "next tempo" allows you to specify a new tempo, then hit "set" which will set it as the current tempo. this value is saved in presets (read on.)presets:- a preset saves the row configuration. this way you can arrange sets of sounds, store them, then recall different arrangements later.- << and >> change which preset "slot" you're using. you can then "store" the current setup on this slot. you will be prompted to name the preset. when you save a preset you'll notice that just below "current: ...." will show that you're on a saved preset.- clicking "recall > ..." will recall a stored preset.- < and > move to the next/previous preset *and* recall that preset automatically. so, by clicking > several times, you step through the past saved presets.- clicking the preset number or "current..." do nothing. yep.patterns:- there are two pattern recorders. a pattern records the 40h key input of a certain length, then loops it.- first set the length of the pattern record with the "length" dropdown- push the 5th key from the left on the top row of the 40h, which queues recording.- recording will begin with the first key input on the rows. when recording, you will see the bar scrolling, indicating the record position. this also indicates playback.- the 5th key will flash when the pattern is outputting a recorded key press.- turn off the pattern by toggling the 5th key off.- this is the same for the 6th key also, so you have two pattern recorders to use.- patterns are erased when you turn them off.live input:- audio can be recorded into audio buffers named input1-8 on the file dropdown.- adjust the input volume, which is next to the master volume. press "thru" to pass the input to the output (if needed)- set which buffer to record to by setting the "input" dropdown on the bottom right- set the "legth" of the recording (in beats)- press "go!" and make some noise. the waveform will be updated in real time.- this audio can be used on a row, or on multiple rows, the same as a dropped file.- "loop" sets recording in loop mode, which will continually overwrite itself.  toggle "loop" off to stopoptions:- file saving: click "SAVE" to save your preset and file list. this creates two files. you can later "LOAD" your setup back in (select the file without the _flist)- output audio recorder records what you hear in the speakers to an audio file. that's it.- beat clock source and output for syncing.- dsp options lets you configure your sound card and various performance options for max/msp- midi lets you specify external midi control for group fader levels and assign note-on values to some different key functions40h top row controls:1-4	stop playback for groups 1-45-6	start/stop pattern record7-8	modifier 1 and 21-4 (with mod 1 held)	decrease volume for group 1-41-4 (with mod 2 held)	increase volume for group 1-41-4 (with both mods held)	mute/unmute group 1-4


loop-set mode:

in the bottom seven rows, you can press and hold a start point and then press an end point, then release both. this will create a looping region, which will be deactivated upon the next press in that row.
keyboard shortcuts:space		start/stop everything[ ]		previous/next presetenter		start live recording (same as go!)\		tap.		select next input,		select previous input